- [Instructor] So far, we use the AWS Toolkit
to do a lot of tedious work of deploying and invoking
our Lambda functions, but it is also good to know
what is happening behind the scenes.
Moreover, automation tools can fail,
so it's always useful to be aware of other methods
to manage Lambda functions.
So let's look into the web console.
You need to search for the Lambda section.
Let's explore how our deployment has been reflected,
and how we can trigger our Lambda application
on AWS Console.
Make sure you're logged into the same region
you also used in IntelliJ.
What you can see is we have two functions,
one deployed with IntelliJ toolkit wizard,
where we manually specified runtime, memory and time out,
and another one that came from the SAM template.
We can also track the SAM template
by clicking on Applications.
The Applications page is a list of artifacts
that have deployed using infrastructure as code,
CloudFormation, in our case, through SAM.
Back in the Functions, let's open the function
that we deployed with SAM template.
Notice that the parts from the Lambda function.
We also have a link to the API Gateway,
which, in this case, is the trigger.
For the API Gateway we can see its endpoint type,
type of authorization, and it is available
under /hellopath.
Also, if you go directly to the API Gateway configuration,
we can see all the details about integration
with our Lambda function.
Back in the Lambda function, we can also change
the configuration for pretty much anything
we have initially defined and much more.
But how do we deploy a new, or upload an existing function?
Well, before we can do anything,
we need to create a deployment package.
Lambda supports two types of deployment packages,
container images and .zip file archives.
This package needs to hold
both compiled classes with its dependencies.
If you're working with Gradle, the buildZip task
compiles classes and copies all dependencies
to live directory, all packaged between ZIP file.
But, when working with Maven, we need classes
and dependencies packaged into single JAR file
called Uber JAR.
For that, we will use the Maven Shade plugin,
which is already configured in the build section.
Let's make a small change in our output.
When we execute the Maven package
Maven will compile our code, and we'll run the Shade plugin
to build the Uber JAR file.
We can find this JAR file in the target directory.
Let's go back to the web console and upload a new version.
Now that the new version is deployed, we can test it.
If we click on Test tab, we have a bunch of event templates
with various JSON structures.
We can ignore this for now,
and, again, provide an empty JSON object and trigger it.
So after we hit Test, in a few seconds,
you should get a success message
together with the new updated text.
If it does, congratulations, you successfully packaged
and uploaded a new version of Lambda function.